Prompt- for chatgpt

I am working on the frontend of a B.Tech project called AutoResearch AI.

The project is an AI-powered research-paper analysis system. The backend is being developed separately by my teammate. The project workflow is:

Research Topic → Academic Paper Search → Paper Cleaning → Full-text/PDF Retrieval → PDF Text Extraction → Text Cleaning → Chunking → Embeddings → Qdrant Vector Database → Semantic Search → AI Research Agents → Research Analysis → Trends → Research Gaps → Evidence Verification → Research Synthesis → Literature Review → Dashboard/Report.

The frontend technology should be Streamlit, with Plotly for interactive visualizations.

Build the frontend independently using mock/sample data initially. Do NOT connect to the backend yet and do NOT change backend files.

Create this structure:

frontend/
├── app.py
├── components/
│   ├── sidebar.py
│   ├── paper_card.py
│   ├── evidence_card.py
│   └── charts.py
├── pages/
│   ├── papers.py
│   ├── analysis.py
│   ├── trends.py
│   ├── gaps.py
│   ├── literature_review.py
│   └── report.py
└── mock_data/
    └── sample_data.json

The UI should include:

Home/Research Topic input page
Research dashboard
Papers page showing title, year, DOI, citation count, OA status and PDF availability
Research Analysis page
Evidence page showing claims with supporting paper/chunk information
Research Trends page with Plotly charts
Research Gaps page
Literature Review page
Report page with download buttons/placeholders

Use a clean, professional academic/research-dashboard design suitable for a B.Tech final-year project.

Important: Build the UI one step at a time. First create the Streamlit application shell, sidebar/navigation, Home page and mock data. Run it and verify it works before implementing the next page.

Do not invent backend APIs yet. The backend API contract will be added later.

How we'll coordinate

I suggest you and your partner work like this:

YOU                              PARTNER
─────────────────────────────────────────────
Backend/AI                       Frontend/UI
   │                                  │
   │                                  │
Qdrant + Gemini                   Streamlit
   │                                  │
Research Agent                    Dashboard
   │                                  │
FastAPI ◄────────────────────────► API integration
             later

So yes, start both now.

You can continue with me on the backend one step at a time, while your partner uses the prompt above to start the frontend one step at a time.

For your side, the next backend step after the Gemini test will be connecting Gemini to the existing Research Agent, but I would let your partner get the frontend shell running first in parallel.

so for no for frontend it does not need to coonect with backend right ?

Correct. For now, the frontend does NOT need to connect to your backend. 👍

Your partner can build the complete UI using mock/sample data.

Current setup
YOU                              YOUR PARTNER
Backend                          Frontend
────────                         ──────────
OpenAlex                         Streamlit UI
PDF processing                   Pages
Qdrant                           Dashboard
Semantic Search                 Charts
Research Agent                   Mock data
Gemini                           UI components
   │                                │
   │                                │
   └───────────────┐  ┌─────────────┘
                   │  │
              CONNECT LATER
                 FastAPI
Why we're doing this

If your partner waits for your backend to be finished, their work will be blocked.

Instead, they can use:

mock_data/sample_data.json

For example:

{
  "title": "Example Research Paper",
  "year": 2024,
  "citations": 120,
  "section": "Introduction",
  "evidence": "Example evidence text"
}

The frontend behaves as if the backend is already working.

Later, we replace:

mock_data

with:

FastAPI → real backend data

without redesigning the UI.

So your responsibilities right now

You:

Qdrant → Semantic Search → Research Agent → Gemini

Partner:

Streamlit → Dashboard → Papers → Analysis → Evidence
          → Trends → Gaps → Literature Review → Report

Later:

Streamlit
    ↓
FastAPI
    ↓
Your existing backend

So yes — tell your partner to start the frontend independently with mock data